# Utmost
* May 26

## Think As Jesus Taught
* By Oswald Chambers
* Pray without ceasing. — 1 Thessalonians 5:17

We think rightly or wrongly about prayer according to the conception we have in
our minds of prayer. If we think of prayer as the breath in our lungs and the
blood from our hearts, we think rightly. The blood flows ceaselessly, and
breathing continues ceaselessly; we are not conscious of it, but it is always
going on. We are not always conscious of Jesus keeping us in perfect joint with
God, but if we are obeying Him, He always is. Prayer is not an exercise, it is
the life. Beware of anything that stops ejaculatory prayer. “Pray without
ceasing,” keep the childlike habit of ejaculatory prayer in your heart to God
all the time.

Jesus never mentioned unanswered prayer; He had the boundless certainty that
prayer is always answered. Have we by the Spirit the unspeakable certainty that
Jesus had about prayer, or do we think of the times when God does not seem to
have answered prayer? “Every one that asketh receiveth.” We say — “But,…but…”
God answers prayer in the best way, not sometimes, but every time, although the
immediate manifestation of the answer in the domain in which we want it may not
always follow. Do we expect God to answer prayer?

The danger with us is that we want to water down the things that Jesus says and
make them mean something in accordance with common sense; if it were only
common sense, it was not worth while for Him to say it. The things Jesus says
about prayer are supernatural revelations.

## Wisdom From Oswald Chambers

If there is only one strand of faith amongst all the corruption within us, God
will take hold of that one strand.  Not Knowing Whither, 888 L

# Daily Reading

* 1 Chronicles 28-29
* John 9:24-41

## 1Ch 28

1Ch 28:1 KJV - "And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of
the tribes, and the captains of the companies that ministered to the king by
course, and the captains over the thousands, and captains over the hundreds,
and the stewards over all the substance and possession of the king, and of his
sons, with the officers, and with the mighty men, and with all the valiant men,
unto Jerusalem."

1Ch 28:2 KJV - "Then David the king stood up upon his feet, and said, Hear me,
my brethren, and my people: [As for me], I [had] in mine heart to build an
house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and for the footstool of
our God, and had made ready for the building:"

1Ch 28:3 KJV - "But God said unto me, Thou shalt not build an house for my
name, because thou [hast been] a man of war, and hast shed blood."

1Ch 28:4 KJV - "Howbeit the LORD God of Israel chose me before all the house of
my father to be king over Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah [to be] the
ruler; and of the house of Judah, the house of my father; and among the sons of
my father he liked me to make [me] king over all Israel:"

1Ch 28:5 KJV - "And of all my sons, (for the LORD hath given me many sons,) he
hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the LORD
over Israel."

1Ch 28:6 KJV - "And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house
and my courts: for I have chosen him [to be] my son, and I will be his father."

1Ch 28:7 KJV - "Moreover I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be
constant to do my commandments and my judgments, as at this day."

1Ch 28:8 KJV - "Now therefore in the sight of all Israel the congregation of
the LORD, and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the
commandments of the LORD your God: that ye may possess this good land, and
leave [it] for an inheritance for your children after you for ever."

1Ch 28:9 KJV - "And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and
serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the LORD searcheth
all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts: if thou
seek him, he will be found of thee; but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee
off for ever."

1Ch 28:10 KJV - "Take heed now; for the LORD hath chosen thee to build an house
for the sanctuary: be strong, and do [it]."

1Ch 28:11 KJV - "Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch,
and of the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upper
chambers thereof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of the place of the
mercy seat,"

1Ch 28:12 KJV - "And the pattern of all that he had by the spirit, of the
courts of the house of the LORD, and of all the chambers round about, of the
treasuries of the house of God, and of the treasuries of the dedicated things:"

1Ch 28:13 KJV - "Also for the courses of the priests and the Levites, and for
all the work of the service of the house of the LORD, and for all the vessels
of service in the house of the LORD."

1Ch 28:14 KJV - "[He gave] of gold by weight for [things] of gold, for all
instruments of all manner of service; [silver also] for all instruments of
silver by weight, for all instruments of every kind of service:"

1Ch 28:15 KJV - "Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold, and for their
lamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick, and for the lamps thereof: and
for the candlesticks of silver by weight, [both] for the candlestick, and
	[also] for the lamps thereof, according to the use of every candlestick."

1Ch 28:16 KJV - "And by weight [he gave] gold for the tables of shewbread, for
every table; and [likewise] silver for the tables of silver:"

1Ch 28:17 KJV - "Also pure gold for the fleshhooks, and the bowls, and the
cups: and for the golden basons [he gave gold] by weight for every bason; and
[likewise silver] by weight for every bason of silver:"

1Ch 28:18 KJV - "And for the altar of incense refined gold by weight; and gold
for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubims, that spread out [their wings],
	and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD."

1Ch 28:19 KJV - "All [this, said David], the LORD made me understand in writing
by [his] hand upon me, [even] all the works of this pattern."

1Ch 28:20 KJV - "And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of good
courage, and do [it]: fear not, nor be dismayed: for the LORD God, [even] my
God, [will be] with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee, until thou
hast finished all the work for the service of the house of the LORD."

1Ch 28:21 KJV - "And, behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites, [even
they shall be with thee] for all the service of the house of God: and [there
shall be] with thee for all manner of workmanship every willing skilful man,
for any manner of service: also the princes and all the people [will be] wholly
at thy commandment."

## 1 Ch 29

1Ch 29:1 KJV - "Furthermore David the king said unto all the congregation,
Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, [is yet] young and tender, and the
work [is] great: for the palace [is] not for man, but for the LORD God."

1Ch 29:2 KJV - "Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God
the gold for [things to be made] of gold, and the silver for [things] of
silver, and the brass for [things] of brass, the iron for [things] of iron, and
wood for [things] of wood; onyx stones, and [stones] to be set, glistering
stones, and of divers colours, and all manner of precious stones, and marble
stones in abundance."

1Ch 29:3 KJV - "Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my
God, I have of mine own proper good, of gold and silver, [which] I have given
to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy
house,"

1Ch 29:4 KJV - "[Even] three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir,
and seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the
houses [withal]:"

1Ch 29:5 KJV - "The gold for [things] of gold, and the silver for [things] of
silver, and for all manner of work [to be made] by the hands of artificers. And
who [then] is willing to consecrate his service this day unto the LORD?"

1Ch 29:6 KJV - "Then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of
Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers of the
king's work, offered willingly,"

1Ch 29:7 KJV - "And gave for the service of the house of God of gold five
thousand talents and ten thousand drams, and of silver ten thousand talents,
and of brass eighteen thousand talents, and one hundred thousand talents of
iron."

1Ch 29:8 KJV - "And they with whom [precious] stones were found gave [them] to
the treasure of the house of the LORD, by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite."

1Ch 29:9 KJV - "Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly,
because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the LORD: and David the
king also rejoiced with great joy."

1Ch 29:10 KJV - "Wherefore David blessed the LORD before all the congregation:
and David said, Blessed [be] thou, LORD God of Israel our father, for ever and
ever."

1Ch 29:11 KJV - "Thine, O LORD, [is] the greatness, and the power, and the
glory, and the victory, and the majesty: for all [that is] in the heaven and in
the earth [is thine]; thine [is] the kingdom, O LORD, and thou art exalted as
head above all."

1Ch 29:12 KJV - "Both riches and honour [come] of thee, and thou reignest over
all; and in thine hand [is] power and might; and in thine hand [it is] to make
great, and to give strength unto all."

1Ch 29:13 KJV - "Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious
name."

1Ch 29:14 KJV - "But who [am] I, and what [is] my people, that we should be
able to offer so willingly after this sort? for all things [come] of thee, and
of thine own have we given thee."

1Ch 29:15 KJV - "For we [are] strangers before thee, and sojourners, as [were]
all our fathers: our days on the earth [are] as a shadow, and [there is] none
abiding."

1Ch 29:16 KJV - "O LORD our God, all this store that we have prepared to build
thee an house for thine holy name [cometh] of thine hand, and [is] all thine
own."

1Ch 29:17 KJV - "I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast
pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of mine heart I have
willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen with joy thy people,
which are present here, to offer willingly unto thee."

1Ch 29:18 KJV - "O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep
this for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people,
and prepare their heart unto thee:"

1Ch 29:19 KJV - "And give unto Solomon my son a perfect heart, to keep thy
commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to do all [these things],
and to build the palace, [for] the which I have made provision."

1Ch 29:20 KJV - "And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the LORD
your God. And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their fathers, and
bowed down their heads, and worshipped the LORD, and the king."

1Ch 29:21 KJV - "And they sacrificed sacrifices unto the LORD, and offered
burnt offerings unto the LORD, on the morrow after that day, [even] a thousand
bullocks, a thousand rams, [and] a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings,
and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel:"

1Ch 29:22 KJV - "And did eat and drink before the LORD on that day with great
gladness. And they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and
anointed [him] unto the LORD [to be] the chief governor, and Zadok [to be]
priest."

1Ch 29:23 KJV - "Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead of
David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him."

1Ch 29:24 KJV - "And all the princes, and the mighty men, and all the sons
likewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solomon the king."

1Ch 29:25 KJV - "And the LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all
Israel, and bestowed upon him [such] royal majesty as had not been on any king
before him in Israel."

1Ch 29:26 KJV - "Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel."

1Ch 29:27 KJV - "And the time that he reigned over Israel [was] forty years;
seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three [years] reigned he in
Jerusalem."

1Ch 29:28 KJV - "And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and
honour: and Solomon his son reigned in his stead."

1Ch 29:29 KJV - "Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they
[are] written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the
prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer,"

1Ch 29:30 KJV - "With all his reign and his might, and the times that went over
him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries."

## Jhn 9

Jhn 9:24 KJV - "Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto
him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner."

Jhn 9:25 KJV - " He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner [or no], I know
not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see."

Jhn 9:26 KJV - "Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he
thine eyes?"

Jhn 9:27 KJV - "He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear:
wherefore would ye hear [it] again? will ye also be his disciples?"

Jhn 9:28 KJV - "Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we
are Moses' disciples."

Jhn 9:29 KJV - "We know that God spake unto Moses: [as for] this [fellow], we
know not from whence he is."

Jhn 9:30 KJV - "The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous
thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and [yet] he hath opened mine eyes."

Jhn 9:31 KJV - "Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a
worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth."

Jhn 9:32 KJV - "Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the
eyes of one that was born blind."

Jhn 9:33 KJV - "If this man were not of God, he could do nothing."

Jhn 9:34 KJV - "They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in
sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out."

Jhn 9:35 KJV - "Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found
him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God?"

Jhn 9:36 KJV - "He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on
him?"

Jhn 9:37 KJV - "And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he
that talketh with thee."

Jhn 9:38 KJV - "And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him."

Jhn 9:39 KJV - "And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that
they which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind."

Jhn 9:40 KJV - "And [some] of the Pharisees which were with him heard these
words, and said unto him, Are we blind also?"

Jhn 9:41 KJV - "Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin:
but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth."
